R-squared this is a very interesting parameter.
A lot of people use it.
And sometimes the user of not knowing the underlying principles of Our Square.
So let's quickly get a understanding of what R-Squared is because we will be using it too.
So we stopped over here.
We talked about the simple introgression been constructed through the ordinary least squares method
where we are Mizzy minimizing the sum of squares of those differences.
Why I minus why I have it.
And basically we are looking at what the model is predicting and what is actually happening at a certain
level of experience or at a certain level for the independent variable.
And we look at that difference.
We're squaring it.
We're summing it for all of the observations we have.
We were counting out some.
And then the line that has them smallest sum will be the best fitting line or will be the simple regression
model.
So let's get rid of that call out for a second and let's remember this value so we'll need it just now
.
And in fact this value has a name.
It's called the sum of squares of residuals.
So we'll just label.
SS Yes and now let's do something else before Chuck we'll get rid of those lines so this is our rule
chart with those are patients and instead of drawing the regression line let's draw the average line
.
So this is your average salary across all of your observations.
Now let's do the same exercise and project our observations onto this line.
And now if we calculate the distances the read distances and we square them then we'll it will look
like this will be a Y minus Y average squared and then we'll take the sum of all these distances.
Now this value also has a name and it's called the total sum of squares.
And what are squared is our R-squared equals to 1 minus sum of squares of residuals divided by total
sum of squares.
And so what this is saying is that there will always be a sum of our total sum of squares right.
So the average not all your records are not always going to be all equal to the average although it's
a very boring data set.
So some of the total sum of squares will you know will always be some sort of value.
And what you're trying to do with your regression is you're trying to fiddle a line to minimize as we
discussed previously to minimize the sum of squares of residuals to make it as small as possible.
Right.
So in a way the way to think of it intuitively is the average line which we have on the Chye right now
is also a type of trendline is just horizontal right.
It's not sloped it's just a horizontal trendline but it kind of also is so you can think of it as a
as a model that is fit to a dot it's not the best model but you know it's just why average.
So what you're trying to do by fitting a sloped line and minimizing the sum of squares of residuals
is you're trying to fit the best line.
And what R-Squared is telling us is it's telling us how good is your line compared to the you know average
line which anybody can think of.
Right so it's not hard to take the average you take a calculator you get the average.
But in order to fit the best fitting line you have to actually run a linear regression.
And if you look at the formula.
So the you tried to minimize s s residual right so some somewhat because of residual So on the right
over there.
That's part of the formula as you minimize SS residual it goes smaller it always becomes smaller.
And that way as this residual boy I do bias's total become smaller and one minus SS residual divided
by his total becomes greater.
So ideally if your SS residual is zero.
So basically your trend line that you're modeling goes through all your records then in that case R-Squared
is equal to 1 and that's the ideal scenario.
But that not normally never happens.
So the closer R-Squared is to 1 the better the further away it is from 1 so the lower It is the worse
.
Our good question is can R-squared ever be negative.
The answer is yes of course our can be negative and that is if your for instance says residual actually
fits your daughter worse than your average line it's hard to do.
You've got to you've got to try because if you don't know if you just draw a random line and yes then
facing the wrong way so here would be going downwards and probably yes you would get in a negative R-squared
.
So that's.
That means that the model is completely broken.
It's better to the average and even to the model.
But normally so our score is normally between zero and one never gets greater than one.
And the closer is to one the better